This video is brought to you by blinkers.
The first a hundred people to go to blinkers.com/biographics will get one week's
tried out for free. They'll also get 25% off the cons full membership,
more on them in a bit.
The Americans civil war was the worst ly in the history of the United eights.
Americans killed each other by the hundreds of thousands burned and destroyed
their own cities and nearly tore the entire country into in the process.
It made many men into heroes on both sides.
And one of the foremost of these is Ulysses grant.
The civil war saved grant from a life of failure and obscurity,
his brilliant tactical and strategic acumen would Ian rise to commands the
entire union army matching wits with the south Robert E. Lee.
He oversaw the final victory of the north over the south,
destroying the institution of slavery in the United States forever.
He helped oversee the reconstruction of the south first as commanding general.
And then as president of the United States,
he helps rebuild the economy of the country,
creating the department of justice to fight the KU Clark's Klan.
And he laid the foundation of the modern federal governments by establishing the
civil service commission. And yet Grandey almost painless.
And in historical analysis of his life,
more emphasis is given to his shortcomings and failures than his successes.
Critics have called him a drunk, a butcher,
a corrupts politician only recently has his reputation begun to be
rehabilitated.
So why was history so unkind to ES grant since what is the
real story behind his remarkable life?
Her MUN grant was born on April the 22nd, 1822 in point pleasant,
Ohio,
a small community on the Ohio river located 25 miles Southeast of Cincinnati.
His father, Jesse operated tannery,
which young ulyses hated local children made fun of his naivety calling him
useless grants.
But the young grants developed an affinity for TAing and riding horses,
something that served in wealth throughout his life. Jesse grants,
figuring his son wasn't destined for the life of a wrote to his Congressman and
secures an appointment for UES to the United States military academy at west
point in 1839,
when he was enrolled in west point E clerical era was made listening his name as
UES ES grant, rather than fighting to have it changed.
Grant lived with it and went by the name for the rest of his life.
His friends at the academy nicknamed him uncle Sam grant because his new initial
alls were us.
And just later shortened it to Sam.
He was an indifferent student graduating in the middle of his class in 1843,
but while he was there,
he became acquainted with many of the officers he would either serve with or
fight against during the civil war,
the class of 1843 produced 15 union generals and three Confederate generals
outta 39 graduates.
Grant's closest friend at the academy where Frederick dens and James Long
street, who both became generals one in the north and one in the south.
It wasn't long after graduating.
The young grants became swept up in the great political event of the 1840s,
the Mexican American war
In 1836,
citizens of the Mexican province of Texas revolted against Mexico defeating the
army of general Santana and winning independence.
Texas was intern annexed by the United States in 1845.
This immediately sparked tensions with the Mexican government.
J Santa Anna was still in power and was humiliated by his defeat at the hands
of the Texans. What's worse.
The Republic of Texas claimed its border extended all the way down to the Rio
Grande, a claim adopted by the United States. After it ATS, Texas,
Mexico still viewed this as its territory and vowed to defend it. James K.
Paul had been elected president of the United States in 1840 on about who
expands the territory of the United States by any means necessary under the
philosophy of manifest destiny, he was spoiling for a fight and in 1846,
he finally got one. When the United States went to war against Mexico,
the us army invaded Mexico striking out for Mexico city.
One of the men in general,
Zachary Taylor army was Lieutenant uny as grant some line as a quarter master.
He distinguished himself at the battle of Montey riding a horse past enemy
snipers to deliver a dispatch for reinforcement grants unit was transferred to a
new army commanded by general Winfield,
Scott who invaded Vera Cruz from the sea heading towards the Mexico capital.
Scott took the city in late 1847 in the United States,
forced Mexico to see not only the territory claimed by Texas,
but the provinces of California and New Mexico as well ending the war in
February,
1848 grant had distinguished himself during Scott's campaign and came outta the
war with a rank of captain.
The Mexican war had given grants and many other future civil war commanders,
valuable combat experience.
A one point during the war grants met another Mexican war hero in Lieutenant
Colonel named Robert Lee,
but grants like many others thought the war to be morally unjust.
He saw it for what it was a war of territorial expansion of conquest,
which isn't something,
a democratic Republic like the United States should be engaged in later.
He would find that the civil war was divine retribution for the country's
aggression against Mexico.
The war with Mexico,
rather than uniting the country behind a common cause only deepens the regional
tensions between the north and the south slavery hung over the country like a
sword of dam driving the country further apart.
UN aunt experienced the strife personally soon after the end of the war,
when grant returned home in 1848,
he married Julia D the sister of his friends and classmate Frederick.
His father refused to attend the wedding,
not because he disapproved of the marriage,
but because the dent family were prominent,
Missouri slaveholders and Jesse Grant was an Arden's abolitionist grant was
transferred from one desolate army pose to another on the frontiers of the
country,
separated from his family and bored with the mundane nature of day to day
Barrack's life grants began to drink to excess.
This got him into trouble and he was forced to resign his army commission in
1854. He return home then made a go at farming, building a home.
He called hard scrap on land given to him by his father-in-law.
It was a failure and grants at one point was so poor that he pawed his gold
watch to buy Christmas presents for his children in late 1858,
after his farm failed, his father-in-law gave him a slave named William Jones.
Slaves were incredibly valuable.
Property grants could have gotten up to a thousand dollars for Joe owns.
If he had sold him a large amount of money when the average salary was less than
$20 a month, but grants,
although not a political abolitionist like his father was personally opposed to
the practice. And in March, 1859, he set William Jones free.
By the end of 1860 grant had been reduced to a position as a clerk in his
father's leather,
good store in Illinois grant didn't support Lincoln in the presidential election
that year,
but was still appalled by the succession of the Southern states in the beginning
of the civil war in April, 1861.
When Lincoln calls for 75,000 volunteers to put down the rebellion grant,
decided to put his army uniform back on to join the fight. Now,
before we get into the impending civil war,
I wanted to take a moment to give a quick shout out to you.
Today's video sponsor link.
It's not always to find the time to sit down and read all the books. Uh,
you want, you may have noticed that I'm a pretty busy guy.
I post a lot of these videos and I don't have as much time as I used to to read
all the books I want. Dear general grant might know what I'm talking about.
He spent a lot of his life busy, whether that's fighting or drinking. I mean,
who can be bothered to read books when this perfectly drinkable whiskey lying
around? Fortunately, I have Blinkus grant didn't,
which is an app that offers easily digestible,
15 minute summaries of all the best non-fiction books.
And there are thousands of books in their catalog.
You can either read them or listen to them.
I personally recommend a book that I recently read,
and I very much enjoyed reading the Blinkus for sort of a recap to get all the
key pieces of knowledge from a long book that would be principles by Ray Dalio,
which is a great read, check it out. Onlin personally,
I listen to books about 90% of the time,
just sort of like a podcast or an audio book is just easier to fit into the day
while doing mindless things like commuting to work or just doing some chores
around the house. Blink has 14 million active users,
and they get the best insights and need to know info from thousands of books
self-help to business, to health, whatever you're into it's on that.
They also have excellent curated lists where the blink is teamed and also guests
put together some specific recommendations,
like how to future proof yourself or just some of their favorites.
And of course you can download and listen to 'em offline the first hundred
people to go to blinkers.com/biographics.
You'll get a week to try it out and you also get 25% off.
If you want the full membership again, a seven day trial, cancel it anytime, a
blinkers.com/biographics and let's get back to it.
Grando is recommissioning to you. The patronage of Congressman Alabi Washburn,
Illinois, who knew grant as a fellow gal residence,
Washburn secured grants appointment first as Colonel over regimen of Illinois
volunteers. And then as a Brigadier general,
he engaged in some small battles with the Confederate forces in Southeastern
Missouri and in Kentucky and in February,
1862 conceived of a plan to capture two important Confederate river forts in
Tennessee, Fort Henry and Fort Donaldson.
He captured both of them demanding immediate and unconditional surrender from
Confederate general,
Simon bbar BNA and his army 12,000 inside for
Donaldson. It was the first union triumph of the war in newspapers,
nicknamed him unconditional surrender grants,
promoted to major general grant was put at the head of the army of the
Tennessee, some 40,000 strong from Fort Henry.
He moved south along the Tennessee river,
and it camped at Pittsburgh landing near a small meeting house called Shao
church.
He was to wait and link up with the army of the Ohio commanded by Don Carlos BU
advancing south from Nashville.
And then together they would March on the city of Corinth, Mississippi,
the Confederate general Albert Sydney Johnston.
Wasn't going to sit around and wait for grants to be reinforced.
His army of Mississippi was of a comparable strength grant and he result to take
the union army by surprise,
cut it off from the river and destroy it just before 6:00 AM on April the sixth,
1862 Johnston's army was a raid for battle less than two miles from the union
army who didn't realize that they were coming grant decided to entrench his
position because his army was green.
And he figured what they needed was more practice with their guns,
not with their shovels.
This was the start of a habit with grant to concern him so off more with his own
plans than those of his enemy. When it works, it worked out well when it didn't,
it could be disastrous by 7:00 AM.
The Confederates were attacking the union lines.
The union men were taking completely by surprise and many initially broken ran.
Other units stood and fought of it or pushed back under heavy far,
the fighting was ferocious close range.
Musketry busting entire lines of soldiers to bits on both sides.
Key to the defense was one of Grant's division commanders, general William T.
Sherman, who seemed to be everywhere on his part of the battlefield.
He continuously rallied his man into a stubborn defense was wounded twice and
had three horses shot out from under him. Nonetheless,
the Confederates continued to advance until noon when their advance began to
slow, not only due to the union resistance,
but because the Confederates had overrun the union camp and many soldiers who
had run out of rations stopped to plunder to food.
The Confederates were further delayed by a union division commanded by Benjamin
printers who put up a stubborn defense at a place called the haunt nest for
several hours, rather than bypass it.
The Confederates kept charging it and taking heavy casualties.
Brent eventually ran out of ammunition and had to surrender his 2000 men,
but he bought enough time for grant to establish a firm defensive position near
Pittsburgh landing.
The Confederate cause was weakened still further by the death of their
commanding general Johnston had been wounded behind his right knee and didn't
realize how much he was bleeding because the blood filled his boot where nor
could see it with no doctor attend to him.
He bled to death on the field on now past general,
P G T Beau regard famous as the man who fired the first shot on Fort Sumter that
began the war year before be regard sent to telegram, to Jefferson Davis,
president of the Confederacy announcing a complete victory.
I have grants just where I want him and can finish him up in the morning.
Fighting pause for the night is both sides caught their breath.
It started rain and the wet weather combined with the cries of the wounded made
for a miserable night for both sides,
general Sherman found grants standing under a tree sheltering from the rain and
smoking a cigar while grants we've had the devil day haven't we shaman said
grants, Cooley puffing. His cigar replied. Yes,
like tomorrow though another general might have thought the prudent thing to do
was to retreat or at least remain on the defensive,
but grants was being reinforced throughout the night by 20,000 fresh troops as
Bill's army arrived.
And he was not a general that being on the defensive on that morning,
April the seventh,
it was grants turn to attack and it was the Confederate turn to be surprised all
day, there was more vicious fighting until ARDS army was driven from the field.
And the union army was left where it had started the day before the cost of the
battle of Chilo shocked,
the nation 13,000 union and 10,700 Confederate it by far
the bloodiest battle of the water date,
the newspapers that had commended grant in February now castigate him,
blaming him for the high casualty counts and for being surprised on the first
day of the battle,
the fact that he rallied in the night and won the battle on the second day was
largely overlooked reporters, spread rumors.
That grant was drunk during the battle. In fact,
while grant had a problem with alcohol, his,
our life that is well known that he never drank while in battle or in the middle
of a campaign. Nonetheless, Henry Hallock,
the commander of the union armies in the west,
who personally despised into was perhaps jealous of grants,
used the battle to try and force grant out of the army.
Abraham Lincoln interceded on Grant's behalf. I can't spare this man.
He said he fights
After being temporarily removed from command grant,
considered resigning from the army in the aftermath of Shao,
it was Sherman who convinced him to stay.
And soon grant was back in action in January,
1863 Grant's army of the Tennessee was to take the city of Vicksburg.
Mississippi Vicksburg was the last Confederate strong points on the Mississippi
river. If it was taken by the union,
the Confederacy would be cut in half with union Naval vessels blockading,
all Southern ports.
It would also remove the only Overland route that the Confederacy had to get
supplies in from overseas Vicksburg. Wasn't an easy fortres to crack though.
It was located on high Hills that overlooked the river,
making it difficult to were approached by ship.
The lands of the north was an impossible maze of swamps rivers and BAS,
and the Confederates had about 30,000 troops Garrison there under the command of
general, John C Pemberton, and to make things worse.
Grant's army was on the opposite side of the river. As the city, initially,
nothing grant tried worked. He attempted to dig canals, traverse, bios,
and other attempts to get his army close enough city without exposing it to the
forts guns. Eventually he decided on a bold strategy.
He would March his army down south of Vicksburg, cross the river there,
and then March north to attack Vicksburg from the east to do it Admiral Porter's
gunboats needed to brave Vicksburg's defenses to be in a position to ferry
grants army across the river. On April the 16th,
10 boats made the attempt Admiral Porter saw that the Confederate shells were
hitting the tops of his ship.
So he maneuvered them as close to the shore on the same side,
as Vicksburg as he could grant watched in satisfaction.
As the majority of the shells flew harmlessly overhead and missed the boats.
Only one out of the 10 boats,
didn't make it six more boats went past Vicksburg on April the 22nd. Again,
only one of them was destroyed on April the 29th grants army started crossing
the Mississippi over the course of the next three weeks.
Grants waged a brilliant campaign out maneuvering his Confederate opponents and
preventing Garrison Vicksburg from being reinforced then defeated Penton's army
at the battle of champion hill, his army surrounding Vicksburg.
And after two assaults failed to carry the city. He settled in for a siege.
Finally on July,
the fourth Pemberton was forced to surrender the city and its Garrison of 20,000
men,
but it was just one day after Rotty Lee's army had been defeated at Gettysburg
and most people received the news of both battles at the same time causing
jubilation in the north and despair in the south Graham was,
is now promoted to command of all the armies in the Western theater of war and
was sent a deal with another pressing situation in Tennessee in September, 1863,
the army of the Cumberlands commanded by William Rose.
Crans had been defeated by Confederate general Brax brag at the battle of chick
Maga. Rose cran had retreated to the city of Chattanooga,
followed by brag who put the city under siege,
grot went Chatanooga with all available forces to break the seed and to defeat
brag. It was here that grant found himself opposed by his old friends,
James Long street for the first time long street had been serving in Robert E
Lee's army in the east,
but was sent to Tennessee to reinforce brag and was now one of brags tenants
grants,
never one for defensive warfare sent his army out to the trenches to attack
brags for horses in two battles on November the 24th and the 21st grant defeated
brag first at lookout mountain. And then at missionary Ridge routing,
the Confederates with heavy losses
Grant was now the union's most successful general. And in March,
1864 Lincoln called of Washington.
He promoted grant to command all union armies with the rank of Lieutenant
general,
a rank that was lost held by George Washington grant decided that the best way
to win the war was to overwhelm the Confederacy. Militarily.
The rebels had grown skilled managing the limited resources they had available
shifting troops from one theater to another as needed grant,
proposed five simultaneous attacks on parts of the Confederacy,
which would prevent the various Confederate forces from reinforcing each.
Other of these two were especially crucial in the west William T.
Sherman Grant's friend and trusted subordinate who had succeeded grant as
commander of the Western theater would invade Georgia and captured the important
city of Atlanta,
but all eyes were on the Eastern theater where the army of the Patoma act
commanded by or Mead,
but overseen by grants would take on Robert E Lee's army of Northern Virginia.
For the last two years,
Lee had made fools out of one union commander after another.
He had consistently out flanked and out fought the army of the Potoma actor.
The point that his name was spoken with reverence in the south and with fear in
the north, the stories about him took on an almost mythical quality.
Some said he couldn't be defeated in battle and that he was divinely inspired
grant. However, wasn't impressed.
He crossed the rapid down river and first encountered at the battle of the
wilderness on may the fifth as with most of the civil war casualties were
appalling,
but rather than retreat as his predecessors had done after a major battle grants
attempted to move around,
Lee's left flag trying to cut his army off from Richmond's the Confederate
capital in the Army's base of supply.
What followed was a series of bloody battles called the Overland campaign grants
systematically worked his way deeper into Virginia engagingly all the way.
Grant suffered 55,000 casualties to Lee, 35,000,
but Lee could hardly afford to replace the money lost while grant had seemingly
infinite reinforcement at his disposal after almost two months of continuous
fighting grant had Lee's army penned up outside the crucial rail Harbor of
Petersburg, not far from Richmond grant dug trenches and settled in for a siege.
He knew that he had Lee where he wanted him. It was just a matter of time,
but time wasn't something that grants and the union army had 1864 was a
presidential election year. And with the war bogged down into the slaughter,
growing worse every day,
that seemed a real chance that Abraham Lincoln would lose his bid for
reelection. His opponent,
George McLean was angry that Lincoln had forced amount of the army and pledged
that if elected, he would end the war by any means necessary,
including signing a peace deal with the Confederates that allowed them to keep
their separate country.
It would also condemn the millions of slaves freed by Lincoln's emancipation
proclamation to a return to grant was being called to butcher in the Northern
press because of the high casualties the army had suffered,
but in the Overland campaign, particularly in battles, such as cold Harbor,
when the union suffered 13,000 casualties to the Confederacy, 5,000,
the bottom line was that the union needed to make real progress in the war
before the election in November or everything there had fought for might come to
nothing.
Salvation came in the form of general Sherman after a bloody campaign ins of his
own Sherman captured the city of Atlanta in September,
as the Confederates left the city, they attempted to burn military supplies,
but the fire spread outta control, ands burns much of the city to the ground.
This victory extensively covered by Julin Northern newspapers,
practically guaranteed Lincoln's reelection Sherman,
then marched on the city of Savannah,
destroying everything in hiss path and early example of modern total war tearing
the guts out the Confederacy as he marched his army to the sea,
and then northwards through the Carolinas. Meanwhile, back in Petersburg,
Granton Lee's armies said Doug miles of trenches in a scene that served as a
prelude to the Western front of world war I, 50 years later,
grant patiently extended his lines, stretching Lee's army thinner and thinner.
And until by the end of March, it was a breaking point on April.
The second grant ordered an assault that captured Petersburg and forced Lee to
abandon Richmond,
which was captured the very next day grant chase Lee for another week before Lee
realized the game was up at AMAs on April the ninth Lee surrendered to grant for
all intents and purposes, the civil war was over
On April the 14th,
five days after the surrender of Lee grants and his wife were supposed to
accompany the Lincolns to Ford's theater in the evening that ultimately declines
the invitation in favor were spending time with his children.
The grants were in Philadelphia that night,
when he received word that Lincoln had been shot by an assassin for the rest of
his life, he would feel guilty that he wasn't there to protect his president,
who he called the greatest man I've ever known most historians agree. However,
the, if grants had been with Lincoln that night it's likely grants would've been
killed two as the commanding general was targeted by booth group and he disliked
carrying weapons. Anyway,
grants as commanding general at the army was now responsible for overseeing the
military occupation of the south. During reconstruction.
He found in Andrew Johnson a much more difficult president to deal with than
Lincoln Johnson wanted to end reconstruction as quickly as possible.
Even if that meant undoing the gains made by African Americans after the a of
slavery Johnson fought with Congress and with his own cabinets and was impeached
by the house of representatives in 1868,
coming very close to being removed from office grant.
Meanwhile was a national hero in the darling of the Republican party. In 1868,
he was nominated by the Republicans for presidents and office. He hadn't sought,
but wasn't going to turn down either. He won in a landslide.
He took office in March, 1869,
like many generals who go on to become politicians.
Graham found the qualities that benefited him in the army were detrimental to
him in the political arena. The military is an autocracy.
The generals give orders than the soldiers of bay, but in politics,
leaders must be masters of persuasion. And in the aftermath of the war,
opinions could not have been more divided.
Recon action would dominate Grant's time. As president grant was determined,
you continued the Republican policy of reconstruction,
which included continuing occupation of the south by federal troops,
promoting organizations for newly freed slaves like the Freedman's bureau and
overall attempting to Disman all the antebellum power structure in the south
that had promoted the idea of Southern nationalism,
but he faced opposition from over variety of sources in the south ex Confederate
soldiers formed secret groups,
including the KU Klux Klan to terrify African Americans and whites who helped
them or supported the Republicans with threats of violence that often turned
bloody seeing in the clan.
The possibility of renewed fighting in the south grant was determined to stop
them.
He established the department of justice as a federal cabinet department and
charged as attorney general with prosecuting the Klan Congress passed the third
enforcement act in 1871,
which gave the president broad powers in combating the white supremacist groups
in the south. By the end of Grant's first time,
the Klan had been effectively destroyed,
and wouldn't be seen again in America for almost 50 years in order to accomplish
his political ends grant was forced to ally himself off with politicians like
Simon, Cameron,
and Roscoe Conlan senators who were more interested in how they could personally
benefit from the Machin nations of authors than actually helping people.
These politicians known as spoils men or Starwars SILS,
an elaborate system of patronage that filled the ranks of federal government
jobs with political favorites.
The system was wildly corrupt filled with countless tales of bribery,
grafts grants Alliance with the Starwars caused a faction of the Republican
party, the liberal Republicans to break with the rest of the party.
As they believed grants, entire administration was corrupt, a wanted reform,
further they opposed grants,
reconstruction policies and wanted the troops out of the south.
They joined with the Democrats who weren't so interested in reform,
but did oppose reconstruction. Nonetheless grant was easily reelected in 1872.
A lot of things went wrong all at once for grant. During a second term,
the economy collapsed very suddenly in 1873 as railroad dark,
suddenly plummeted and investors panicked.
The administration was beset by scandal. Gran was not personally corrupt,
but he had a bad habit of trusting his associates,
especially former military colleagues who were corruption was eventually found
in seven federal departments.
Things came to a head in 1875 when the so-called whiskey ring was exposed.
Whiskey distillers had been working with treasury to cheat the federal
governments out of distillation taxes and splitting the proceeds.
The string of government officers were indicted in the investigation,
including Orville Bako, the president's private secretary,
the scandals caused grants administration to lose most of its credibility and
combined with the economic depression and growing frustration over
reconstruction.
It led to a government I as the 1876 selection approached grant initially
explored the idea of running for a third term as presidents,
but ever since George Washington,
an unofficial tradition of a president not serving more than two terms was
considered almost SACS acted in Washington and grant had few supporters within
the Republican party, your Congress,
he eventually decided against running again in 1876,
the was shrouded in controversy and was only settled after a backroom compromise
gave Republican candidate Rutherford behave the presidency in return for the
withdrawal of troops from the south.
The nation had now abandoned reconstruction completely.
And all the old Confederate states quickly established laws that made African
Americans second class citizens. The so-called Jim Crow south,
that would for almost a hundred years because of the collapse of reconstruction
and the numerous scandals,
many historians view grants P presidency as a failure,
but he did achieve a number of achievements during his eight years in office.
He established the nation's first national park Yellowstone.
He founded the civil service commission in an attempt to combat the spoil system
so prevalent during his administration in which laid the foundation of the
modern professional government.
He advocated for the ratification of the 15th amendment to the constitution,
which prohibited states from denying people, the right to vote based on race.
And he was a strong supporter of civil rights, especially for blacks,
Jews and women
After leaving office grants and Julia embarked on a world tour meeting,
many world leaders, including queen Victoria, oon Bismark and Emper Maji Japan.
After two and a half years,
the grants arrived back in the United States in 1879 grants sold political
allies, trying to secure him,
the Republican nomination for a third term as president in 1880,
but were unsuccessful.
And the grants moved to New York city and invested in a brokerage fund,
but his business partner third and,
and ward was a swindler who ran the firm as a Ponzi scheme and attempted to run
off with the money. When it collapsed grants was left painless in 1884,
grant was diagnos is with throat cancer,
probably caused by his near constant cigar smoking. The honest was terminal,
and he worried about leaving Julia without any money to live on. After he died,
Grant's friends, mark Twain encouraged him to write his memoirs,
offering him a deal that would pay 70% of the royalties from sales of the book
and unheard of amount. At the time he worked tirelessly on the book for months,
despite failing health and extreme pain.
He finished the manuscript in July of 1885 and only a few days later on July,
the 23rd, 1885 UN S grant died at the age of 63,
his funeral in New York city, drone estimated 1.5 million people,
including many veterans of the war on both sides.
He was buried in a temporary tomb in Riverside park. And 12 years later,
a permanent Memorial Grant's tomb was finished and his remains moved there
joined by Julia in 1902.
She had lived the rest of her life on the proceeds from her husband's memoirs,
about $450,000, almost 13 million in today's money
At the time of his death grant was considered.
One of America's almost heroes ranking up there with George Washington and
Abraham Lincoln.
So what happens at Grant's reputation since he obviously doesn't rank that
highly now in the decades that followed Grant's death,
the historical analysis of the civil war and reconstruction began to be
increasingly dominated by pro Southern writers. These historians,
most belonging to the so-called Dunning school after Columbia university,
professor William Dunning took the view that Southern succession wasn't driven
by slavery, but by states' rights and the aggression of the north,
their story cast, Robert Lees,
the hero who humbly defended the honor and property of his home against
invaders, and because every hero needs a villain, they put grants in that role.
They revived charges by contemporary newspapers.
That aunt was a drunken general who threw away the lives of his men and only
defeated Lee,
thanks to BR force Southern whites developed the Dunning school of thought into
the lost cause philosophy that saw the Confederacy as a noble cause and made
Southern generals into heroes and the Northern counterparts into villains.
They used the lost cause philosophy throughout the first half of the 20th
century to justify the continu of discrimination towards African Americans grant
was an unwilling victim of this.
And it wasn't until the Jim Crow laws began to be torn down in the 1960s that
his reputation underwent reevaluation from modern historians today after the
publication of a number of biographies from more objective writers grant is
viewed in a more favorable life by many Americans than he was 60 or 70 years
ago. UN as grants is without a doubts.
One of the most important figures in American history,
he perhaps did more to win the war for the union than any man,
except for Abraham Lincoln.
Keeping the country from being split into two and abolishing slavery.
His military tactics are still study today,
a military Academy's worldwide and his presidency,
or not as successful as his army career still accomplished a number of important
achievements. When you consider where he started with where he ended up,
it is a truly remarkable rise and the United States is better off for
his service. So I really hope you found that video. Interesting. If you did,
please do hit that thumbs up bottom. Hello. Don't forget to subscribe also.
Please do check it off. Fantastic sponsor.
Blinkus link to below and thank you for watching.